[docs] TLS protocol and cipher suite controls. (#1722)
kroxylicious/kroxylicious: docs/modules/configuring/con-configuring-target-cluster-connections.adoc

= Securing connections to target clusters

[role="_abstract"]
To secure connections from the virtual cluster to the upstream cluster, configure the target cluster's TLS setting by
doing the following:

* If the upstream is using a private CA, use the `trust` properties to configure a truststore for the target cluster.

> * If you wish to use mutual TLS, use the `key` property to specify the certificate that will be used by the virtual
>   cluster will use to identify itself to the upstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you want to use mutual TLS, specify the certificate with the `key` property to identify the virtual cluster to the upstream.
```

> * If desired, you may restrict the TLS protocols and/or cipher suites that may be used to form the TLS connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If required, you can restrict the TLS protocols and cipher suites that are used to form the TLS connection.
```

NOTE: TLS is recommended on Kafka clients and virtual clusters for production configurations.

Examples below illustrate how these steps may be done.

> Using an empty object (`{}`) enables TLS using the platform's defaults.  This means that platform trust, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using an empty object (`{}`) enables TLS using the platform's defaults. This means that platform trust, and
```

default protocols and cipher suites will be used. This option is suitable if the upstream cluster is using a TLS

> certificate signed by a public CA and the platform's defaults are acceptable to you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certificate signed by a public CA and the platform's defaults are suitable.
```

> .Example - enabling the target cluster to use TLS using platform defaults

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example enabling TLS for a target cluster using platform defaults
```

----

If it is using a TLS certificate signed by a private CA, you must add truststore configuration for the target cluster.

> The example illustrates using PKCS #12 formatted. PEM format is supported too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example illustrates using PKCS #12 format. PEM format is supported too.
```

> .Example - specifying a truststore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example specifying a truststore
```

<2> Password to access the public Kafka cluster CA certificate.
<3> (Optional) Keystore type. If a keystore type is not specified, the default JKS (Java Keystore) type is used.

> For mutual TLS, add a keystore configuration for the virtual cluster.  The example illustrates using a PEM formatted
> server certificate/key pair. A PKCS #12 key store is supported too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For mutual TLS, add a keystore configuration for the virtual cluster.  
The following example uses a PEM format server certificate and key pair. 
PKCS #12 keystore format is supported too.
```

.Example - configuring mutual TLS
[source,yaml]
----
virtualClusters:
  my-cluster-proxy:
    targetCluster:
      bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
      tls:
        key:
          privateKeyFile: <path>/client.key # <1>
          certificateFile: <path>/client.crt # <2>
# ...
----
<1> Private key of the virtual cluster.
<2> Public CA certificate of the virtual cluster.

The TLS protocols and cipher suites available to the TLS connection may also be configured.

> .Example - restricting the TLS protocols using an allow list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example restricting TLS protocols using an allow list
```

[source,yaml]
----
virtualClusters:
  my-cluster-proxy:
    targetCluster:
      bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
      tls:
        # ...
        protocols:
          allow:  # <1>
          - TLSv1.3
          - TLSv1.2
----

> <1> List of TLS protocols to be allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> List of allowed TLS protocols.
```

> .Example - restricting the TLS protocols using a deny list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example restricting TLS protocols using a deny list
```

[source,yaml]
----
virtualClusters:
  my-cluster-proxy:
    targetCluster:
      bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
      tls:
        # ...
        protocols:
          allow:  # <1>
          - TLSv1.1
----

> <1> List of TLS protocols to be disallowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> List of disallowed TLS protocols.
```

> .Example - restricting the cipher suite using an allow list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example restricting cipher suites using an allow list
```

[source,yaml]
----
virtualClusters:
  my-cluster-proxy:
    targetCluster:
      bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
      tls:
        # ...
        protocols:
          allowed:  # <1>
          - TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CCM
          - TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CCM
----

> <1> List of cipher suites to be allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> List of allowed cipher suites.
```

> .Example - restricting the cipher suites using a deny list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example restricting cipher suites using a deny list
```

[source,yaml]
----
virtualClusters:
  demo:
  my-cluster-proxy:
    targetCluster:
      bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
      tls:
        # ...
        protocols:
          deny:  # <1>
          - TLS_KRB5_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_MD5
----

> <1> List of cipher suites to be disallowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> List of disallowed cipher suites.
```

        # ...
        protocols:
          allow:  # <1>
          - TLSv1.1
----
<1> List of TLS protocols to be disallowed.

.Example - restricting the cipher suite using an allow list

[source,yaml]
----
virtualClusters:
  my-cluster-proxy:
    targetCluster:
      bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
      tls:
        # ...
        protocols:
          allowed:  # <1>
          - TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CCM
          - TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CCM
----
<1> List of cipher suites to be allowed.

.Example - restricting the cipher suites using a deny list

[source,yaml]
----
virtualClusters:
  demo:
  my-cluster-proxy:
    targetCluster:
      bootstrapServers: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.kafka.svc.cluster.local:9093
      tls:
        # ...
        protocols:
          deny:  # <1>
          - TLS_KRB5_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_MD5
----
<1> List of cipher suites to be disallowed.

For the purposes of testing (that is, outside a production environment), you can set the `insecure` property to `true`
to disable TLS trust checks (hostname verification and certificate validation) so that the Kroxylicious can connect to
any Kafka cluster.

> .Example configuration disable TLS trust checks

Author: "Turning off TLS" makes it sound like a plaintext connection, which is of course not what is meant.
